---
title: "Vote for Shane for Town Meeting in the 12th!"
categories:
  - TownMeeting
tags:
  - Campaign
---

Hello!  My name is Shane Curcuru, and I'm candidate for Town Meeting in the 12th Precinct atop the Heights, because I want to see more **transparency in town government**.  If elected to TMM, I will publicly blog every issue I research, and try to explain what the various warrant articles _actually_ mean and how various committees work.  See the [draft 2020 warrant articles, annotated](https://menotomymatters.com/tm/2020draft/) and my [Amazing Agendas Meeting Trackers](/meetings/) covering Select Board, ARB, and School Committee meetings, and my [Election 2020 Guide](/townhall/election-guide-2020/) for some of my work bringing clarity to town government (expect 2021 updates soon!)  I've also built a simple [open data hub for Arlington](https://arlingtonma.info/), helping expose some key town data in an easy-to-use format.

We have a great town, and some great people working for the town and volunteering 
on various committees.  But it's still to hard to understand what's 
going on in different meetings or behind the scenes.  My goal is to help Arlingtonians 
find all the source documents behind the committee meeting agendas, and 
help you understand what they really mean.  An informed citizenry is the 
most important thing to keep town meeting and democracy working well.

I also believe town governance needs to be truly welcoming and inclusive for all of Arlington’s residents no matter what their background, and that it's important to continue to hold town bodies responsible for eliminating bias and treating everyone fairly and respectfully.

**Remember to vote!** [Town elections](https://www.arlingtonma.gov/town-governance/elections-voting) are Saturday April 10th (normal time again for 2021!), and it's [easy to request a vote-by-mail or absentee ballot](https://www.arlingtonma.gov/Home/Components/News/News/10963/6196?backlist=%2ftown-governance%2felections-voting)!

Please make sure to vote, no matter what Precinct you're in, since there 
are several important and competitive Town elections this year.  
Also, I hope if you're in the 12th Precinct, you'll vote for Shane Curcuru
as one of your four choices for Town Meeting!

## Have More Questions  ?

If you've got other questions either about how to get things done with 
town government, or questions about what I'd do as a Town Meeting Member 
in the 12th Precinct, let me know at [shane@menotomymatters.com](mailto:shane@menotomymatters.com?Subject=[MM] Campaign Question)!
