---
title: "Visualizing The 2019 Town Meeting Warrant"
categories:
  - TownMeeting
tags:
  - Data
  - Warrant
---

I've always been curious about [how Town Meeting works in Massachusetts](https://www.sec.state.ma.us/cis/cistwn/twnidx.htm),
and since I'm now running for TMM in the 12th precinct, I'd better get 
serious about doing the research!  My first step was to simply **find** 
all the information about the warrant for our 2019 Town Meeting.  It's 
simple to find warrant - but not so simple to understand it all.

The warrant is a formal document that describes what matters will be discussed 
or decided at a Town Meeting.  In days of yore it was likely printed up 
and either posted in the local meetinghouse, or delivered via horseback.  
Today, the warrant is still sent by mail to all households in town - and 
is also [posted on the town website](https://www.arlingtonma.gov/town-governance/town-meeting/2019-town-meeting-warrant).

You can read through the posted warrant either in your web browser or by downloading 
the PDF file, but it quickly becomes obvious that there's a lot going on 
behind the scenes here.  Many of the articles in the warrant are 
straighforward reviews of reports - but the _reports_ being reviewed aren't 
included there.  And as legal documents, many articles are proposing 
specific and detailed changes to bylaws, but unless you've read the 
whole [102 page Zoning Bylaw for Arlington](https://www.arlingtonma.gov/town-governance/laws-and-regulations/zoning-bylaws) 
recently, each little change won't make sense on it's own.

## 2019 Town Warrant - Visualized!

To better understand last year's warrant, I've built a visualization of 
the [2019 Arlington Town Meeting Warrant](/tm/2019/).  This includes 
all the data from the warrant you can find online, plus annotates it all:

- Follow the (view official article) link to see the official text used by the town, so you can check that I copied the right text.
- Articles include the pass/fail status and what the votes for it were.
- Many articles were amended or changed; when I could find this data, the links to the proposed amendments are included at the top.
- Articles always come from someplace - see who inserted the article in the warrant at the bottom.
- Many articles are related to each other, so there are links to navigate back and forth.
- Town boards often provide detailed reports about their articles, so you can read the Supplemental Information here too.

Note that while I have written a parser for various data in the warrant, 
much of the work preparing and cleaning the source data from the town is 
still manual.  So if something's missing, I probably haven't finished it yet.

## Limitations On Warrant Data

- While all text and data have been derived from official town documents, 
errors can happen.  And remember: the only legally official documents 
are the ones on the town website.
- This site reflects the formal 2019 warrant as used at the start of 
town meeting.  Many articles were amended or substituted during the 
meeting process: those changes are **not** reflected in the article text
here.  However any posted amendments are noted by title at the head of any
article, and links are included in the Supplemental Documents at the bottom.
- All Pass/Fail and vote data is derived from official town spreadsheets 
that I got via public records request.
- Some comments on Supplemental Documents by Redevelopment or Select Boards are paraphrased 
from the actual report notes.  For full details, read the linked reports.

## How To Report Corrections

If you've spotted an error or problem, please let me know!  Be sure to 
also include source links or other documentable proof if there's an error 
in anything that comes from the town.

The best way to submit a specific correction is to propose an edit on 
any page directly: at the very bottom, find the "Propose change on GitHub"
link.  Make just the specific correction you're suggesting, and then include 
linl. detailed comments and justification in the Commit Changes edit boxes.

If you don't have a GitHub account, they're free - but then again, if you're 
not a software type, you probably will just want to email me instead 
at [shane@menotomymatters.com](mailto:shane@menotomymatters.com?Subject=[MM] Warrant Data Correction).

**Thanks for reading!**

